# ADR 1: Integrating Maps

## Context

To design an interactive map, we need a tool that can display a map to users that is developer-friendly and can be made interactive. This tool must allow the following capabilities:

* Functionality: It should be able to draw new places, parking lots and bus/bike routes on the map,

* Interactivity: Ability to detect user has clicked on any of these components and react to it,

* Availability: Appears aesthetically appealing on both desktop and mobile environments, and

* Scalability: It should be able to handle several hundred points.

The choice of map tool will be important, since this tool will likely need to be actively modified as administrators on campus learn about it. This means that the map tool needs to make it easy to add new points, possibly fetching them from some remote database. If we want to track a building that is far off campus, then it should be easy to do so.

## Decision

We chose to use Google Maps to display the map. Google Maps has a well-maintained and developer-friendly API which allows placing all of the types of graphics that we need. Furthermore, it is fairly fast, and can support up to thousands of individual points on a map, and works on all types of devices.

Google Maps also has a complete map of the world on it, which means that there will be little trouble in adding new points. 

## Status

Accepted

## Consequences

Google Maps will restrict us to doing all of the visual work inside the Maps API. This may make it hard to automate integration tests, and the API needs to be extensively mocked to automate unit tests.

Otherwise, the Google Maps API is very useful. It is easy to use the tool to map directions to any building, and the overall design of Google Maps is easy to understand and use.
