# ADR 2: Framework for the Frontend


## Context

Since this is meant to be a web application, we will be using Node/Javascript extensively. There are several frameworks available to organize our work. We are mainly concerned with using a framework that allows intercommunication within the entire application, while also allowing updates to be fast and easy.


## Decision

We choose to use [React](https://facebook.github.io/react/) and [Flux](https://facebook.github.io/flux/) for our framework. React is a frontend library that specifies components for rendering. It is a modular framework in which visual parts of the application can be broken down into React Components. These components have a well-specified top-down communication model which ties into the component's rendering. Furthermore, there are some extensions using persistent data structures for communication, which can improve efficiency (currently not implemented in our app).

Flux is a state-management library that will allow React components to affect global state rather than restricting communication to the top-down model that React uses. Flux is also incredibly simple and lightweight, which makes it ideal for a purely client-side environment. Since Flux is minimal, we have more control over how stores behave and can use that to optimize performance.


## Status

Accepted


## Consequences

React has no native integration with Google Maps, and all third-party integration tools are either hard to understand or too slow. For that reason, we will manually implement any Google Maps features as React components, which will allow for fine-grained optimizations.

There are minimal performance losses in using React to integrate with Google Maps, and it does in fact allow strong asynchronous communication within the app.

Flux is lightweight and minimal, which means that many simple actions can be achieved via coordination between stores. We may have some challenges if there are actions that need complex coordination, however. Furthermore, most of these persistent store frameworks are cumbersome because creating new actions requires modifying three separate files (generally `stores/<Store>.js`, `actions/<Actions>.js` and `constants/<Constants>.js`). It would be nicer to have a method for specifying all endpoints between view/controllers (the React components) and stores, and another for internal behavior.
