# ADR 3: Item Component Communication


## Context

Within our application, there are components (such as [Place](blob/src/components/map/Place.jsx) or [ItemInfo](blob/src/components/menu/ItemInfo.jsx)) that represent single items on the map, like a place, a parking lot, a bike rack, or a bus route. Some information that these components need can be propagated from the parent in the standard React top-down fashion (the *item metadata*), but some information needs to be shared among components that have the same item (the *item state*).

For example, in one use case, a user will click on a place and get more information about that place in the sidebar. If we were to use the standard top-down React/Flux design, small changes in item state would lead to a re-render of the entire application. It turns out that when the number of items reaches the hundreds, this leads to the app running much slower. We need a standard design that gives items access to the store without having side-effects outside of the component.


## Decision

We choose to have our Flux store send out state change events associated with a certain item. React Components associated with an item will use a React Higher-Order Component [ItemStateHOC](src/hoc/ItemStateHOC.jsx) to listen for state-change events associated with that item and then pass down state changes via the top-down React fashion.

Therefore, the parent component will carry no item state information with it. While this is not a React-like approach to the communication process, it carries no additional overhead and is much easier to specify, since parent components do not need to concern themselves with state at all.


## Status

Accepted


## Consequences

Components with an ItemStateHOC should preferably be rendered by the parent component at all times, since these components are usually conditionally appearing/disappearing based on item state information. Make sure you have a clear understanding on what exactly the item state should store before using it. It is unintuitive since the easiest solution will not always be the best one. 

For example, our map app supports selecting a single item by clicking on the marker, which increases the size of the marker on the app and opens up a More Information drop-down in the sidebar. The incorrect implementation of this method would be to track the selected item in the `Map` component by having the component pass `select` and `deselect` methods that directly change the Map component's state. This is because the item in the "More Information" component needs the select information to correctly display, and propagating it through the application will lead to longer and messier code. Instead, the way it is implemented is that the selected item is stored within the `ItemStore`, and the actions available to items ensure that only one item is selected. That way, there is no way that React components may select items in such a way that two items are simultaneously selected. Furthermore, the `ItemStateHOC` guarantees that the new state will be tracked when the store is changed.

Another bad design practice would be to have an `ItemStateHOC` contain an `ItemStateHOC` within it. In the case that a sub-component uses state information, it would be best to past all relevant state information to the sub-components instead. See the use of [Marker](src/components/map/Marker.jsx) within the `ItemStateHOC` component [Place](src/components/map/Place.jsx) for an example of correctly passing item state information.
